= Rake Versioning

* https://github.com/drernie/rake-versioning
* FROM: http://github.com/stouset/version / http://rdoc.info/gems/version/ / http://atlruby.org/stouset/posts/138-version-task

== Description

Rake Versioning is a simple wrapper around the concept of version-numbering schemes.  It is forked from the "Version" gem as that name caused numerous complications in my environment.

== Features

* Rake::VersioningTask provides tasks for simple version bumping
* Rake Versioning smartly handles several versioning schemes, abstracting the details

== Examples

=== Screencast

For a quick introduction to the original gem, watch the
screencast[http://blip.tv/file/get/Tkadom-ATLRUGSteveTousetPresentingRake Versioning277.mov]
of my presentation[http://atlruby.org/stouset/posts/138-version-task] at the
{Atlanta Ruby Users' Group}[http://atlruby.org/].

=== Rake Tasks

Rake Versioning comes with a Rake::Rake VersioningTask that lets you manage version numbering
automatically. Place the following in a Rakefile:

  require 'rake/rake_versioning'
  Rake::Rake VersioningTask.new

You're all set up.

  $ rake version:create VERSION=0.1.0 # => 0.1.0

Now `rake -T version` will tell you what all you can do.

  $ version [master *$%]$ rake -T version
  rake version                    # Print the current version number (0.1.0)
  rake version:bump               # Bump to 0.1.1
  rake version:bump:major         # Bump to 1.0.0
  rake version:bump:minor         # Bump to 0.2.0
  rake version:bump:pre           # Bump to 0.1.1a
  rake version:bump:pre:major     # Bump to 1.0.0a
  rake version:bump:pre:minor     # Bump to 0.2.0a
  rake version:bump:pre:revision  # Bump to 0.1.1a
  rake version:bump:revision      # Bump to 0.1.1
  rake version:create             # Creates a version file with an optional VERSION parameter

  $ rake version                      # => 0.1.0
  $ rake version:bump                 # => 0.1.1
  $ rake version:bump:minor           # => 0.2.0
  $ rake version:bump:revision        # => 0.2.1
  $ rake version:bump:pre             # => 0.2.2a
  $ rake version:bump                 # => 0.2.2
  $ rake version:bump:major           # => 1.0.0
  $ rake version:bump:minor           # => 1.1.0
  $ cat VERSION                       # => 1.1.0

The Rake VersioningTask can automatically manage git tagging for
you, too.

  Rake::Rake VersioningTask.new do |task|
    task.with_git_tag = true
  end

And if you want the Rake VersioningTask to automatically emit updated gemspecs on
version-bumps, use the +with_gemspec+ flag.

  spec = Gem::Specification.new do |s|
    ...
  end

  Rake::Rake VersioningTask.new do |task|
    task.with_gemspec = spec
  end

Rake Versioning also supports a .yml VERSION file. See the Rake VersioningTask rdoc for
details.

=== Library Rake Versioninging

Rake Versioning lets you automatically keep an in-class VERSION constant in sync with
the contents of the version file on disk. Rake Versioning also provides a class-level
+current+ method which lets you get the current version without setting a
class-level constant.

  require 'version'

  Rake Versioning.current # => 1.0.1

  class Foo
    is_versioned
  end

  Foo::VERSION # => 1.0.1

The Rake Versioning.current and Class::is_versioned methods both take a filename
parameter if you use a different location for the VERSION file. See the
Rake Versioning.current rdoc for details.

=== Manipulation in Code

All the above functionality is performed behind-the-scenes by the Rake Versioning
library. It's simple to use, but I'll be surprised if there's much point
beyond doing the legwork for the Rake task and class versioning.

  v = "1.2.0".to_version
  v.to_s                       # => 1.2.0
  v.bump!                      # => 1.2.1
  v.bump!(:major)              # => 2.0.0
  v.bump!(:minor, false, true) # => 2.1
  v.major = 3                  # => 3.0
  v.to_a                       # => ['3', '0']

== Install

  [sudo] gem install version
